"Paper Title","Paper Link","Publication Year","Publication Type","Publication Title","Author Names","DOI","PDF Link","Snippet","Abstract"
"Evaluating the code quality of ai-assisted code generation tools: An empirical study on github copilot, amazon codewhisperer, and chatgpt","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluating-the-code-quality-of-ai-assisted-code-generation-21vbb8wd","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Burak Yetistiren
Eray Tüzün","10.48550/arXiv.2304.10778","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10778","… In general, we have seen that our findings for Code Maintainability of the generated code by GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT, where we have seen some …","Context: AI-assisted code generation tools have become increasingly prevalent in software engineering, offering the ability to generate code from natural language prompts or partial code inputs. Notable examples of these tools include GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and OpenAI's ChatGPT. Objective: This study aims to compare the performance of these prominent code generation tools in terms of code quality metrics, such as Code Validity, Code Correctness, Code Security, Code Reliability, and Code Maintainability, to identify their strengths and shortcomings. Method: We assess the code generation capabilities of GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT using the benchmark HumanEval Dataset. The generated code is then evaluated based on the proposed code quality metrics. Results: Our analysis reveals that the latest versions of ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, and Amazon CodeWhisperer generate correct code 65.2%, 46.3%, and 31.1% of the time, respectively. In comparison, the newer versions of GitHub CoPilot and Amazon CodeWhisperer showed improvement rates of 18% for GitHub Copilot and 7% for Amazon CodeWhisperer. The average technical debt, considering code smells, was found to be 8.9 minutes for ChatGPT, 9.1 minutes for GitHub Copilot, and 5.6 minutes for Amazon CodeWhisperer. Conclusions: This study highlights the strengths and weaknesses of some of the most popular code generation tools, providing valuable insights for practitioners. By comparing these generators, our results may assist practitioners in selecting the optimal tool for specific tasks, enhancing their decision-making process."
"Assessing the performance of ai-generated code: A case study on github copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/assessing-the-performance-of-ai-generated-code-a-case-study-3py1f6975s66","2024","Journal Article","","Shuang Li
Yuntao Cheng
Jinfu Chen
Jifeng Xuan
Sen He
Weiyi Shang","10.1109/issre62328.2024.00030","https://ece.uwaterloo.ca/~wshang/pubs/ISSRE_2024.pdf","… generating code using GitHub Copilot and evaluating its performance regressions using both … Our study explores three widely used datasets for code generation evaluation, focusing on …","The integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) into software development tools like GitHub Copilot holds the promise of transforming code generation processes. While AI-driven code generation presents numerous advantages for software development, code generated by large language models may introduce challenges related to security, privacy, and copyright issues. However, the performance implications of AI-generated code remain insufficiently explored. This study conducts an empirical analysis focusing on the performance regressions of code generated by GitHub Copilot across three distinct datasets: HumanEval, AixBench, and MBPP. We adopt a comprehensive methodology encompassing static and dynamic performance analyses to assess the effectiveness of the generated code. Our findings reveal that although the generated code is functionally correct, it frequently exhibits performance regressions compared to code solutions crafted by humans. We further investigate the code-level root causes responsible for these performance regressions. We identify four major root causes, i.e., inefficient function calls, inefficient looping, inefficient algorithm, and inefficient use of language features. We further identify a total of ten sub-categories of root causes attributed to the performance regressions of generated code. Additionally, we explore prompt engineering as a potential strategy for optimizing performance. The outcomes suggest that meticulous prompt designs can enhance the performance of AI-generated code. This research offers valuable insights contributing to a more comprehensive understanding of AI-assisted code generation."
"Investigating the impact of code generation tools (chatgpt & github copilot) on programming education","https://scispace.com/paper/investigating-the-impact-of-code-generation-tools-chatgpt-2x2i7ix39o","","Proceedings Article","","Faisal Nizamudeen
Lorenzo Gatti
Nacir Bouali
Faizan Ahmed","10.5220/0012628000003693","https://research.utwente.nl/files/457355900/126280.pdf","… Pack can access GitHub Copilot for free. ChatGPT and Github Copilot are the primary … We will delve into the impacts that these codegeneration tools can have on education as a …",": In our rapidly evolving technological landscape, AI tools have gained substantial power and integration across various domains. Through interviews and surveys conducted at a University in the Netherlands, we investigated students’ perceptions of AI tools. Our results show that students generally have a positive attitude towards the adoption of AI technologies and feel that it enhances their learning experience. Furthermore, this research project examines the capabilities of AI-powered tools, namely GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT, in solving a variety of university-level assignments. By empirically evaluating the capabilities of these AI tools and offering insights to educators, this research project aims to assist them in designing programming exercises that encompass essential learning processes while accounting for students’ utilization of AI tools. The findings indicate that a majority of the exercises currently utilized by the examined university could be solved partially or entirely with the aid of these tools. This project highlights the importance of educators understanding the capabilities of AI tools, as well as students’ attitudes towards them, to effectively adapt their teaching methods and promote essential learning goals."
"Code correctness and quality in the era of AI code generation: Examining ChatGPT and GitHub copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/MXEjqNqJRjsJ","","","","E Hansson
O Ellréus","","https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1764568/FULLTEXT01.pdf","… code generation capabilities of GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT in terms of code correctness and code quality. … divided into two main categories: code correctness and code quality. Code …",""
"On the robustness of code generation techniques: An empirical study on github copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/on-the-robustness-of-code-generation-techniques-an-empirical-15e9tihl","2023","Proceedings Article","International Conference on Software Engineering","Antonio Mastropaolo
Luca Pascarella
Emanuela Guglielmi
Matteo Ciniselli
Simone Scalabrino
Rocco Oliveto
Gabriele Bavota","10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00181","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.00438","… Instead, we focus on empirical studies looking at code recommenders from different perspectives (Section VA) and on studies specifically focused on GitHub Copilot (Section VB). …","Software engineering research has always being concerned with the improvement of code completion approaches, which suggest the next tokens a developer will likely type while coding. The release of GitHub Copilot constitutes a big step forward, also because of its unprecedented ability to automatically generate even entire functions from their natural language description. While the usefulness of Copilot is evident, it is still unclear to what extent it is robust. Specifically, we do not know the extent to which semantic-preserving changes in the natural language description provided to the model have an effect on the generated code function. In this paper we present an empirical study in which we aim at understanding whether different but semantically equivalent natural language descriptions result in the same recommended function. A negative answer would pose questions on the robustness of deep learning (DL)-based code generators since it would imply that developers using different wordings to describe the same code would obtain different recommendations. We asked Copilot to automatically generate 892 Java methods starting from their original Javadoc description. Then, we generated different semantically equivalent descriptions for each method both manually and automatically, and we analyzed the extent to which predictions generated by Copilot changed. Our results show that modifying the description results in different code recommendations in ∼46% of cases. Also, differences in the semantically equivalent descriptions might impact the correctness of the generated code (±28%)."
"Program code generation with generative AIs","https://scispace.com/paper/program-code-generation-with-generative-ais-110k8ejxoq","2024","Journal Article","Algorithms","Baskhad Idrisov
Tim Schlippe","10.3390/a17020062","","… evaluated newer versions of GH Copilot and CodeWhisperer, they measured 18% and 7% better values for correctness. … Concerning reliability, ChatGPT produced two bugs, GH Copilot …","Our paper compares the correctness, efficiency, and maintainability of human-generated and AI-generated program code. For that, we analyzed the computational resources of AI- and human-generated program code using metrics such as time and space complexity as well as runtime and memory usage. Additionally, we evaluated the maintainability using metrics such as lines of code, cyclomatic complexity, Halstead complexity and maintainability index. For our experiments, we had generative AIs produce program code in Java, Python, and C++ that solves problems defined on the competition coding website leetcode.com. We selected six LeetCode problems of varying difficulty, resulting in 18 program codes generated by each generative AI. GitHub Copilot, powered by Codex (GPT-3.0), performed best, solving 9 of the 18 problems (50.0%), whereas CodeWhisperer did not solve a single problem. BingAI Chat (GPT-4.0) generated correct program code for seven problems (38.9%), ChatGPT (GPT-3.5) and Code Llama (Llama 2) for four problems (22.2%) and StarCoder and InstructCodeT5+ for only one problem (5.6%). Surprisingly, although ChatGPT generated only four correct program codes, it was the only generative AI capable of providing a correct solution to a coding problem of difficulty level hard. In summary, 26 AI-generated codes (20.6%) solve the respective problem. For 11 AI-generated incorrect codes (8.7%), only minimal modifications to the program code are necessary to solve the problem, which results in time savings between 8.9% and even 71.3% in comparison to programming the program code from scratch."
"Benchmarking ChatGPT, Codeium, and GitHub Copilot: a comparative study of AI-driven programming and debugging assistants","https://scispace.com/paper/benchmarking-chatgpt-codeium-and-github-copilot-a-3xdh28sizadi","2024","Journal Article","","Md Sultanul Islam Ovi
Najam Akber Anjum
Tasmina Haque Bithe
Mohammad Masudur Rahman
Mst. Shahnaj Akter Smrity","10.48550/arxiv.2409.19922","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.19922","… tasks like code generation, bug fixing, and optimization. Tools like ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, … presents a comparative study of ChatGPT, Codeium, and GitHub Copilot, evaluating their …","With the increasing adoption of AI-driven tools in software development, large language models (LLMs) have become essential for tasks like code generation, bug fixing, and optimization. Tools like ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, and Codeium provide valuable assistance in solving programming challenges, yet their effectiveness remains underexplored. This paper presents a comparative study of ChatGPT, Codeium, and GitHub Copilot, evaluating their performance on LeetCode problems across varying difficulty levels and categories. Key metrics such as success rates, runtime efficiency, memory usage, and error-handling capabilities are assessed. GitHub Copilot showed superior performance on easier and medium tasks, while ChatGPT excelled in memory efficiency and debugging. Codeium, though promising, struggled with more complex problems. Despite their strengths, all tools faced challenges in handling harder problems. These insights provide a deeper understanding of each tool's capabilities and limitations, offering guidance for developers and researchers seeking to optimize AI integration in coding workflows. "
"A comparative study of code generation using chatgpt 3.5 across 10 programming languages","https://scispace.com/paper/a-comparative-study-of-code-generation-using-chatgpt-3-5-tb564bl3i5","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Alessio Buscemi","10.48550/arxiv.2308.04477","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04477","… performance Apart from the capability of generating functioning code, we investigate the time performance of ChatGPT, ie the time ChatGPT … the response time of ChatGPT on the given …","Large Language Models (LLMs) are advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems that have undergone extensive training using large datasets in order to understand and produce language that closely resembles that of humans. These models have reached a level of proficiency where they are capable of successfully completing university exams across several disciplines and generating functional code to handle novel problems. This research investigates the coding proficiency of ChatGPT 3.5, a LLM released by OpenAI in November 2022, which has gained significant recognition for its impressive text generating and code creation capabilities. The skill of the model in creating code snippets is evaluated across 10 various programming languages and 4 different software domains. Based on the findings derived from this research, major unexpected behaviors and limitations of the model have been identified. This study aims to identify potential areas for development and examine the ramifications of automated code generation on the evolution of programming languages and on the tech industry. "
"ChatGPT vs. DeepSeek: A comparative study on AI-based code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/chatgpt-vs-deepseek-a-comparative-study-on-ai-based-code-1b1wplmo90bx","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Md. Motaleb Hossen Manik","10.48550/arxiv.2502.18467","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.18467?","… in the realm of code generation: ChatGPT and DeepSeek. The … , ChatGPT or DeepSeek, exhibits superior performance in code … code generation, focusing on ChatGPT and DeepSeek. …",""
"Programming with ai: Evaluating chatgpt, gemini, alphacode, and github copilot for programmers","https://scispace.com/paper/programming-with-ai-evaluating-chatgpt-gemini-alphacode-and-6i64frm8jlxe","2024","Journal Article","","Md Kamrul Siam
Huanying Gu
Jerry Cheng","10.48550/arxiv.2411.09224","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3723178.3723224","… own code generation accuracy tests in … code generation accuracy. AI has a bright future in software development and other fields, as long as the problems of ethics, justice, and accuracy …","Our everyday lives now heavily rely on artificial intelligence (AI) powered large language models (LLMs). Like regular users, programmers are also benefiting from the newest large language models. In response to the critical role that AI models play in modern software development, this study presents a thorough evaluation of leading programming assistants, including ChatGPT, Gemini(Bard AI), AlphaCode, and GitHub Copilot. The evaluation is based on tasks like natural language processing and code generation accuracy in different programming languages like Java, Python and C++. Based on the results, it has emphasized their strengths and weaknesses and the importance of further modifications to increase the reliability and accuracy of the latest popular models. Although these AI assistants illustrate a high level of progress in language understanding and code generation, along with ethical considerations and responsible usage, they provoke a necessity for discussion. With time, developing more refined AI technology is essential for achieving advanced solutions in various fields, especially with the knowledge of the feature intricacies of these models and their implications. This study offers a comparison of different LLMs and provides essential feedback on the rapidly changing area of AI models. It also emphasizes the need for ethical developmental practices to actualize AI models' full potential. "
"Optimizing ai-assisted code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/optimizing-ai-assisted-code-generation-35mxuzuro7a1","2024","Journal Article","","Simon Torka
Şahin Albayrak","10.48550/arxiv.2412.10953","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2412.10953?","… , systems such as ChatGPT, OpenAI Codex, GitHub Copilot, and … GitHub Copilot generates code that is comparable to humanwritten code in terms of complexity and readability …","In recent years, the rise of AI-assisted code-generation tools has significantly transformed software development. While code generators have mainly been used to support conventional software development, their use will be extended to powerful and secure AI systems. Systems capable of generating code, such as ChatGPT, OpenAI Codex, GitHub Copilot, and AlphaCode, take advantage of advances in machine learning (ML) and natural language processing (NLP) enabled by large language models (LLMs). However, it must be borne in mind that these models work probabilistically, which means that although they can generate complex code from natural language input, there is no guarantee for the functionality and security of the generated code. However, to fully exploit the considerable potential of this technology, the security, reliability, functionality, and quality of the generated code must be guaranteed. This paper examines the implementation of these goals to date and explores strategies to optimize them. In addition, we explore how these systems can be optimized to create safe, high-performance, and executable artificial intelligence (AI) models, and consider how to improve their accessibility to make AI development more inclusive and equitable. "
"Students' Use of GitHub Copilot for Working with Large Code Bases","https://scispace.com/paper/students-use-of-github-copilot-for-working-with-large-code-14efrz13w5tw","2025","Journal Article","","Anya Chernova
Elena Tomson
Leo Porter
William G. Griswold
Adalbert Gerald Soosai Raj","10.1145/3641554.3701800","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3641554.3701800","… after using it, with our findings showing greater student trust in code comprehension features than code generation features. Taken together, our findings reveal the varied student …",""
"Practices and challenges of using github copilot: An empirical study","https://scispace.com/paper/practices-and-challenges-of-using-github-copilot-an-2foqefnp","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Beiqi Zhang
Peng Liang
Xiyu Zhou
Aakash Ahmad
Muhammad Waseem","10.18293/SEKE2023-077","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08733","… powered by OpenAI Codex and suggests … AI-assisted programming tools has empowered practitioners in their software development efforts, there is little evidence and lack of empirically…","With the advances in machine learning, there is a growing interest in AI-enabled tools for autocompleting source code. GitHub Copilot, also referred to as the""AI Pair Programmer"", has been trained on billions of lines of open source GitHub code, and is one of such tools that has been increasingly used since its launch on June 2021. However, little effort has been devoted to understanding the practices and challenges of using Copilot in programming with auto-completed source code. To this end, we conducted an empirical study by collecting and analyzing the data from Stack Overflow (SO) and GitHub Discussions. More specifically, we searched and manually collected 169 SO posts and 655 GitHub discussions related to the usage of Copilot. We identified the programming languages, IDEs, technologies used with Copilot, functions implemented, benefits, limitations, and challenges when using Copilot. The results show that when practitioners use Copilot: (1) The major programming languages used with Copilot are JavaScript and Python, (2) the main IDE used with Copilot is Visual Studio Code, (3) the most common used technology with Copilot is Node.js, (4) the leading function implemented by Copilot is data processing, (5) the significant benefit of using Copilot is useful code generation, and (6) the main limitation encountered by practitioners when using Copilot is difficulty of integration. Our results suggest that using Copilot is like a double-edged sword, which requires developers to carefully consider various aspects when deciding whether or not to use it. Our study provides empirically grounded foundations and basis for future research on the role of Copilot as an AI pair programmer in software development."
"AI-Assisted Programming","https://scispace.com/paper/ezlnJW9O2A0J","","","","T Taulli","","https://www.hkdca.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/ai-assisted-programming-oreilly.pdf","… Cassandra in six weeks, Copilot and ChatGPT were key to meeting our … for AI-Assisted Programming When we added vector search to Cassandra in six weeks, Copilot and ChatGPT …",""
"Use of ai-driven code generation models in teaching and learning programming: a systematic literature review","https://scispace.com/paper/use-of-ai-driven-code-generation-models-in-teaching-and-5e8ttxrnfg","2024","","","Doga Cambaz
Xiaoling Zhang","10.1145/3626252.3630958","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3626252.3630958","… The search query was created by pinpointing search terms from the research questions, listing their synonyms, and including specific LLMs or code generation tools like ChatGPT and …","The recent emergence of LLM-based code generation models can potentially transform programming education. To pinpoint the current state of research on using LLM-based code generators to support the teaching and learning of programming, we conducted a systematic literature review of 21 papers published since 2018. The review focuses on (1) the teaching and learning practices in programming education that utilized LLM-based code generation models, (2) characteristics and (3) performance indicators of the models, and (4) aspects to consider when utilizing the models in programming education, including the risks and challenges. We found that the most commonly reported uses of LLM-based code generation models for teachers are generating assignments and evaluating student work, while for students, the models function as virtual tutors. We identified that the models exhibit accuracy limitations; generated content often contains minor errors that are manageable by instructors but pose risks for novice learners. Moreover, risks such as academic misconduct and over-reliance on the models are critical when considering integrating these models into education. Overall, LLM-based code generation models can be an assistive tool for both learners and instructors if the risks are mitigated."
"Self-collaboration code generation via chatgpt","https://scispace.com/paper/self-collaboration-code-generation-via-chatgpt-d4mfllet","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Yihong Dong
Xue Jiang
Zhi Jin
Ge Li","10.48550/arXiv.2304.07590","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3672459","… for code generation employing LLMs, exemplified by ChatGPT. … the virtual team addresses code generation tasks collaboratively … experiments on various code-generation benchmarks. …","Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable code-generation ability, they still struggle with complex tasks. In real-world software development, humans usually tackle complex tasks through collaborative teamwork, a strategy that significantly controls development complexity and enhances software quality. Inspired by this, we present a self-collaboration framework for code generation employing LLMs, exemplified by ChatGPT. Specifically, through role instructions, 1) Multiple LLMs act as distinct ``experts'', each responsible for a specific subtask within a complex task; 2) Specify the way to collaborate and interact, so that different roles form a virtual team to facilitate each other's work, ultimately the virtual team addresses code generation tasks collaboratively without the need for human intervention. To effectively organize and manage this virtual team, we incorporate software-development methodology into the framework. Thus, we assemble an elementary team consisting of three ChatGPT roles (i.e., analyst, coder, and tester) responsible for software development's analysis, coding, and testing stages. We conduct comprehensive experiments on various code-generation benchmarks. Experimental results indicate that self-collaboration code generation relatively improves 29.9%-47.1% Pass@1 compared to direct code generation, achieving state-of-the-art performance and even surpassing GPT-4. Moreover, we showcase that self-collaboration could potentially enable LLMs to efficiently handle complex real-world tasks that are not readily solved by direct code generation, as evidenced in case study."
"Codexity: Secure ai-assisted code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/codexity-secure-ai-assisted-code-generation-2l1ceb3mum","2024","Preprint","","Sung Yong Kim
Zhiyu Fan
Yannic Noller
Abhik Roychoudhury","10.48550/arxiv.2405.03927","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.03927","… , ChatGPT generates one completion of each prompt for the temperature at 0. Then, we executed ChatGPT … We specified a prompt as vulnerable if (1) ChatGPT produces a vulnerable …","Despite the impressive performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in software development activities, recent studies show the concern of introducing vulnerabilities into software codebase by AI programming assistants (e.g., Copilot, CodeWhisperer). In this work, we present Codexity, a security-focused code generation framework integrated with five LLMs. Codexity leverages the feedback of static analysis tools such as Infer and CppCheck to mitigate security vulnerabilities in LLM-generated programs. Our evaluation in a real-world benchmark with 751 automatically generated vulnerable subjects demonstrates Codexity can prevent 60% of the vulnerabilities being exposed to the software developer. "
"Copilot for Xcode: exploring AI-assisted programming by prompting cloud-based large language models","https://scispace.com/paper/copilot-for-xcode-exploring-ai-assisted-programming-by-26kzoymf5x","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Chee Wei Tan
Shangxin Guo
Man Fai Wong
Ching Nam Hang","10.48550/arxiv.2307.14349","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14349","… This paper presents an AI-assisted programming tool called Copilot for Xcode for program … to enable the functionality of GitHub Copilot in Xcode. In particular, GitHub Copilot requires an …","This paper presents an AI-assisted programming tool called Copilot for Xcode for program composition and design to support human software developers. By seamlessly integrating cloud-based Large Language Models (LLM) with Apple's local development environment, Xcode, this tool enhances productivity and unleashes creativity for software development in Apple software ecosystem (e.g., iOS apps, macOS). Leveraging advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques, Copilot for Xcode effectively processes source code tokens and patterns within code repositories, enabling features such as code generation, autocompletion, documentation, and error detection. Software developers can also query and make ""small"" decisions for program composition, some of which can be made simultaneously, and this is facilitated through prompt engineering in a chat interface of Copilot for Xcode. Finally, we present simple case studies as evidence of the effectiveness of utilizing NLP in Xcode to prompt popular LLM services like OpenAI ChatGPT for program composition and design. "
"Natural language generation and understanding of big code for AI-assisted programming: A review","https://scispace.com/paper/natural-language-generation-and-understanding-of-big-code-37gff8tq","2023","Journal Article","Entropy","Man Fai Wong
Ching Nam Hang
Chee Wei Tan","10.3390/e25060888","https://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/25/6/888/pdf?version=1685700676","… Apple developers to utilize GitHub Copilot [144] for code suggestions and ChatGPT [176] for … for Xcode successfully enables Xcode to support GitHub Copilot, as shown in Figure 6. In …","This paper provides a comprehensive review of the literature concerning the utilization of Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, with a particular focus on transformer-based large language models (LLMs) trained using Big Code, within the domain of AI-assisted programming tasks. LLMs, augmented with software naturalness, have played a crucial role in facilitating AI-assisted programming applications, including code generation, code completion, code translation, code refinement, code summarization, defect detection, and clone detection. Notable examples of such applications include the GitHub Copilot powered by OpenAI’s Codex and DeepMind AlphaCode. This paper presents an overview of the major LLMs and their applications in downstream tasks related to AI-assisted programming. Furthermore, it explores the challenges and opportunities associated with incorporating NLP techniques with software naturalness in these applications, with a discussion on extending AI-assisted programming capabilities to Apple’s Xcode for mobile software development. This paper also presents the challenges of and opportunities for incorporating NLP techniques with software naturalness, empowering developers with advanced coding assistance and streamlining the software development process."
"Ai-generated code is not reproducible (yet): An empirical study of dependency gaps in llm-based coding agents","https://scispace.com/paper/OKwzF6C3cekJ","","","","BP Vangala
A Adibifar
A Gehani
T Malik","","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.22387","… Now, tools like Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, and Gemini Code Assist promise to accelerate development by generating complete projects, entire applications with multiple files, …",""
"Methodology for code synthesis evaluation of LLMs presented by a case study of ChatGPT and copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/methodology-for-code-synthesis-evaluation-of-llms-presented-3l59ftaonl","","Journal Article","IEEE Access","Zoltán Ságodi
István Siket
Rudolf Ferenc","10.1109/access.2024.3403858","https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel7/6287639/6514899/10535504.pdf","… We consider the proper comparison of LLMs in code generation an important task which will be inevitable during industrial software development. Based on this study we aim to create …","Large Language Models (LLMs) have grown in popularity in recent years and are now employed in a variety of software engineering domains thanks to their Natural Language Processing (NLP) capabilities, which include source code generation, understanding, and documentation. Selecting the appropriate model for source code generation presents a problem to developers as more and more powerful LLMs become available. While some studies have evaluated Copilot or ChatGPT, there is a lack of research on how developers can choose from available LLMs, which is a key factor in the growing set of available models and services. It is crucial to know if a model is capable of generating useful source code that meets the quality requirements and if the developers will be able to use the generated code. Regarding these factors, one has to decide which model to utilize during everyday tasks. This paper shows a methodology to compare such models by demonstrating an actual comparison of two models. Subsequently, we investigated the functional and non-functional qualities of the code synthesized by the models on a program synthesis benchmark containing 25 tasks. On average, the functional testing shows that ChatGPT generated 17 perfect solutions, while Copilot could only solve 13. The non-functional analysis reflected that both models generated good quality code, however, both have characteristic code smells. Our evaluation shows that ChatGPT performs better using this methodology, which is supported by human reviewers who evaluated the generated code by hand. "
"AI-assisted code generation tools","https://scispace.com/paper/wKU-uxAT0VoJ","","","","J Nygård","","https://oulurepo.oulu.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/50546/nbnfioulu-202406144516.pdf?sequence=1","… CodeWhisperer can also perform security scans for your project files. The LLM CodeWhisperer … Amazon states that in terms of quality of the training data CodeWhisperer supports best …",""
"Systematic evaluation of ai-generated python code: A comparative study across progressive programming tasks","https://scispace.com/paper/systematic-evaluation-of-ai-generated-python-code-a-4dxh2moc6p26","2024","Journal Article","","Yang Qianyi","10.21203/rs.3.rs-4955982/v1","","… : GitHub Copilot, Microsoft Copilot, Tabnine, and ChatGPT. … , and maintainable and whether it has areas for improvement. … In terms of the code generation time, the GitHub Copilot also …","<title>Abstract</title> <bold>Background: </bold>AI-based code assistants are on the rise in software development as powerful technologies offering streamlining of code generation and better-quality code. However, their effectiveness is very variable, and understanding their pros and cons becomes very important in regard to using them optimally. Introduction: This study evaluates the capabilities of four prominent AI-based code assistants: GitHub Copilot, Microsoft Copilot, Tabnine, and ChatGPT. This study addresses whether the quality of produced code is functional, efficient, and maintainable and whether it has areas for improvement. <bold>Methodology:</bold> The AI-generated code was compared in terms of correctness, McCabe complexity (cyclomatic complexity), efficiency, and code size. The correctness percentage was the portion of code without errors, McCabe complexity was used for measuring structural complexity, execution performance represented efficiency, and the size of the code was just by lines of code. All AI tools were benchmarked against a standard set of 100 prompts to ensure like-for-like assessment. <bold>Results:</bold> GitHub Copilot had the highest correctness at 42%, and ChatGPT generated the most complex code—which was measured with a McCabe complexity score of 2.92. Efficiencywise, ChatGPT also topped with the highest number of codes that meet the ""good"" criteria. On average, Tabnine produced the shortest code, whereas GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT were among the most verbose. The analysis revealed that although AI-based assistants can generate high-quality code, they usually produce code far different from solutions written by developers themselves, and it is difficult for them to cope with dependencies between classes. <bold>Conclusion:</bold> AI-based code assistants have substantial potential for improvingcode generation and software development efficiency. However, challenges remain, particularly in handling complex dependencies and producing ready-to-use code. The study suggests that leveraging the strengths of different assistants and focusing on enhancing their ability to manage complex coding scenarios could lead to significant advancements. Ongoing research and development are essential to address these limitations and fully harness the potential of AI-based code assistants in software development. "
"AI-Powered Coding Tools: A Study of Advancements, Challenges, and Future Directions.","https://scispace.com/paper/ai-powered-coding-tools-a-study-of-advancements-challenges-41g0h91fcx07","2024","Journal Article","Science and technology of engineering, chemistry and environmental protection","D. Zhang","10.61173/n7m7qa37","https://www.deanfrancis.press/ojs/index.php/te/article/download/849/TE004862.pdf","… This review examines the effects of AI-assisted programming in contemporary software … and GitHub Copilot. Starting with data processing and ending with model deployment, the review …","This review examines the effects of AI-assisted programming in contemporary software development, paying particular attention to tools driven by Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-4o and GitHub Copilot. Starting with data processing and ending with model deployment, the review describes the standard workflow for training machine learning models and how programmers use these models to improve their coding processes. GitHub Copilot, an AI-powered code generator, and GPT-4o, a general-purpose LLM, are compared in terms of accuracy, usability, and efficiency when assisting with programming tasks. The results show that although both tools greatly facilitate coding, they each have particular advantages and disadvantages. GitHub Copilot is excellent at integrating with IDEs, providing contextual code recommendations and streamlining processes. In contrast, GPT-4o shows better accuracy when creating code from scratch, but it does not have Copilot’s seamless IDE integration. The review also identifies some of the current drawbacks of AI-powered coding tools, including the possibility of producing faulty or vulnerable code as a result of training on unreliable datasets and the inability to comprehend context, which can occasionally result in functionally correct but practically incorrect code. In order to filter and fix problematic code before training, the review recommends using advanced algorithms for data pre-processing. It also suggests improving the interpretability of code generated by AI to help developers better comprehend and trust the results. "
"… is futile"": How university programming instructors plan to adapt as more students use AI code generation and explanation tools such as ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/sxiSEMNK0ncJ","","","","S Lau
P Guo","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3568813.3600138","… GitHub Copilot AI code generation tool [35] launched after a year in private beta. In late November 2022, the ChatGPT … Microsoft and Google announced ChatGPT-like conversational AI …",""
"Large Language Models for Code Generation and Program Comprehension: Exploring Capabilities, Context, and Developer Adaptation","https://scispace.com/paper/Z6dlwBtpiAUJ","","","","MM Billah","","https://harvest.usask.ca/bitstreams/67756182-8202-4b1c-91e0-b507168b8d8f/download","… To evaluate its real-world applicability, we integrated the approach into GitHub Copilot Chat using a copilot-instructions.md file. This setup enabled adaptive summarization through two …",""
"Comparative Study of Code Generation by AI Models","https://scispace.com/paper/comparative-study-of-code-generation-by-ai-models-n3var1sp3p99","2025","Proceedings Article","","Abhinaya Panthi
Aayush Khanal
Kiran Sharma","10.1109/iccrtee64519.2025.11052899","","… comparative performance of AI generated code using ChatGPT versus human-written code on several measures of code quality and readability. The results show that while ChatGPT-…",""
"Conversational AI as a Coding Assistant: Understanding Programmers' Interactions with and Expectations from Large Language Models for Coding","https://scispace.com/paper/conversational-ai-as-a-coding-assistant-understanding-8rn3suuniyhr","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Mehmet Akhoroz
Caglar Yildirim","10.48550/arxiv.2503.16508","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.16508","… ) such as ChatGPT, Claude, and GitHub Copilot have rapidly … natural language dialogues for code generation, debugging, and … The increasing adoption of LLM-based coding assistants …",""
"Experiences and challenges in AI-driven modular software development using large language models for code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/experiences-and-challenges-in-ai-driven-modular-software-48p8nmp4le3t","2024","Journal Article","","Şadi Evren Şeker","10.22541/au.172871465.54826063/v1","https://www.authorea.com/doi/pdf/10.22541/au.172871465.54826063","… • ChatGPT: ChatGPT excelled in understanding complex natural language prompts and … -line code generation comparable to more advanced LLMs like ChatGPT or GitHub Copilot. Its …",""
"Is your code generated by chatgpt really correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/is-your-code-generated-by-chatgpt-really-correct-rigorous-1lvo40r8","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Jiawei Liu
Chun Xia
Lingming Zhang","10.48550/arXiv.2305.01210","https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/43e9d647ccd3e4b7b5baab53f0368686-Paper-Conference.pdf","… evaluation across 26 popular LLMs (eg, GPT-4 and ChatGPT… -CodeLlama now outperform ChatGPT on HUMANEVAL +, … synthesis evaluation results do not accurately reflect the true …","Program synthesis has been long studied with recent approaches focused on directly using the power of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate code. Programming benchmarks, with curated synthesis problems and test-cases, are used to measure the performance of various LLMs on code synthesis. However, these test-cases can be limited in both quantity and quality for fully assessing the functional correctness of the generated code. Such limitation in the existing benchmarks begs the following question: In the era of LLMs, is the code generated really correct? To answer this, we propose EvalPlus -- a code synthesis benchmarking framework to rigorously evaluate the functional correctness of LLM-synthesized code. EvalPlus augments a given evaluation dataset with large amounts of test-cases newly produced by an automatic test input generator, powered by both LLM- and mutation-based strategies. While EvalPlus is general, we extend the test-cases of the popular HUMANEVAL benchmark by 81x to build HUMANEVAL+. Our extensive evaluation across 19 popular LLMs (e.g., GPT-4 and ChatGPT) demonstrates that HUMANEVAL+ is able to catch significant amounts of previously undetected wrong code synthesized by LLMs, reducing the pass@k by 13.6-15.3% on average. Our work not only indicates that prior popular code synthesis evaluation results do not accurately reflect the true performance of LLMs for code synthesis, but also opens up a new direction to improve such programming benchmarks through automated testing."
"Use of AI-driven Code Generation Models in Teaching and Learning Programming","https://scispace.com/paper/BCV77VJt_XwJ","","","","D Cambaz","","https://repository.tudelft.nl/file/File_63d2dc94-539c-4acf-a0a0-fd741ce96000","… search terms from the research questions, then listing their synonyms, and also by including specific large language models or code generation tools like ChatGPT and Github Copilot. …",""
"A comparison of the effectiveness of chatgpt and co-pilot for generating quality python code solutions","https://scispace.com/paper/a-comparison-of-the-effectiveness-of-chatgpt-and-co-pilot-53sniuj4bd9f","2024","Journal Article","","Nikos Nikolaidis
Karolos Flamos
Khanak Gulati
Daniel Feitosa
Apostolos Ampatzoglou
Alexander Chatzigeorgiou","10.1109/saner-c62648.2024.00018","https://research.rug.nl/files/1145083793/A_Comparison_of_the_Effectiveness_of_ChatGPT_and_Co-Pilot_for_Generating_Quality_Python_Code_Solutions.pdf","… For RQ1, we employed a combination of quantitative and qualitative analyses to evaluate the effectiveness of Copilot and ChatGPT in Python code generation. This includes examining …","Artificial intelligence (AI) has become increasingly popular in software development to automate tasks and improve efficiency. AI has the potential to help while developing or maintaining software, in the sense that it can produce solutions out of a textual requirement specification, and understand code to provide suggestion on how a new requirement could be implemented. In this paper, we focus on the first scenario. Two AI-powered tools that have the potential to revolutionize the way software is developed are OpenAI's ChatGPT and GitHub's Copilot. In this paper, we used LeetCode, a popular platform for technical interview preparation and personal upskilling (self-learning), to evaluate the effectiveness of ChatGPT and Copilot on a set of coding problems, along with ChatGPT's ability to correct itself when provided with feedback. The analysis of the effectiveness can lead to various conclusions, such as on if these solutions are ready to take over coding roles, and to what extent several parameters (difficulty and quality requirements) influence this result. Solutions have been generated for 60 problems using ChatGPT and Copilot, for the Python programming language. We investigated the performance of the models, the recurrent kinds of errors, and the resulting code quality. The evaluation revealed that ChatGPT and Copilot can be effective tools for generating code solutions for easy problems while both models are prone to syntax and semantic errors. Small improvements are observed for ode quality metrics across iterations, although the improvement pattern is not consistently monotonic, questioning ChatGPT's awareness of the quality of its own solutions. Nevertheless, the improvement that was found along iterations, highlights the potential of AI and humans, acting as partners, in providing the optimal combination. The two models demonstrate a limited capacity for understanding context. Although AI-powered coding tools driven by large language models have the potential to assist developers in their coding tasks, they should be used with caution and in conjunction with human coding expertise. Developer intervention is necessary not only to debug errors but also to ensure high-quality and optimized code."
"The impact of ai-generated code on web development: A comparative study of chatgpt and github copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/_W5og-g01EQJ","","","","E Fajkovic
E Rundberg","","https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1769082/FULLTEXT01.pdf","… ChatGPT’s and GitHub Copilot’s capabilities and limitations by examining factors such as efficiency during production, and the maintainability … with using ChatGPT for code generation, …",""
"Evaluating LLMs for code generation in HRI: A comparative study of ChatGPT, gemini, and claude","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluating-llms-for-code-generation-in-hri-a-comparative-11fvspfuqr28","2024","Journal Article","Applied Artificial Intelligence","Andrei Sobo
Abdul Mubarak
Almas Baimagambetov
Nikolaos Polatidis","10.1080/08839514.2024.2439610","https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/08839514.2024.2439610","… to complex object manipulation scenarios, we evaluate the models’ ability to … performance, with Claude 3.5 Sonnet achieving a 95% success rate, Gemini 1.5 Pro at 60%, and ChatGPT …","This study investigates the effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating code for Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) applications. We present the first direct comparison of ChatGPT 3.5, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Claude 3.5 Sonnet in the specific context of generating code for Human-Robot Interaction applications. Through a series of 20 carefully designed prompts, ranging from simple movement commands to complex object manipulation scenarios, we evaluate the models' ability to generate accurate and context-aware code. Our findings reveal significant variations in performance, with Claude 3.5 Sonnet achieving a 95% success rate, Gemini 1.5 Pro at 60%, and ChatGPT 3.5 at 20%. The study highlights the rapid advancement in LLM capabilities for specialized programming tasks while also identifying persistent challenges in spatial reasoning and adherence to specific constraints. These results suggest promising applications for LLMs in robotics development and education while emphasizing the continued need for human oversight and specialized training in AI-assisted programming for HRI. "
"Learn AI-assisted Python programming: with github copilot and ChatGPT","https://scispace.com/paper/j4k620FZID4J","","","","L Porter
D Zingaro","","","… What you see from GitHub Copilot may not match what you see in this book. GitHub Copilot is … More than that, GitHub Copilot is nondeterministic, which means that if you ask it to solve …",""
"Evaluation of the code generated by large language models: The state of the art","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluation-of-the-code-generated-by-large-language-models-1ynd91sgsu6x","2025","Proceedings Article","","Zhihao Ying
Dave Towey
Yifan Zhang","10.1109/compsac65507.2025.00064","https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Yifan-Zhang-58/publication/394981397_Evaluation_of_the_Code_Generated_By_Large_Language_Models_The_State_of_the_Art/links/68b6a923ca495d769831f029/Evaluation-of-the-Code-Generated-By-Large-Language-Models-The-State-of-the-Art.pdf","… In conclusion, while LLMs like ChatGPT have demonstrated well performance in code generation, their integration into software-development workflows must be approached with …",""
"Learn to code sustainably: An empirical study on llm-based green code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/learn-to-code-sustainably-an-empirical-study-on-llm-based-as9x50nb63","2024","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Tina Vartziotis
Ippolyti Dellatolas
George Dasoulas
Maximilian Schmidt
Florian Schneider
Tim Hoffmann
Sotirios D. Kotsopoulos
Michael Keckeisen","10.48550/arxiv.2403.03344","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.03344","… We observe that in multiple cases, CodeWhisperer and ChatGPT fail to produce or optimize codes (for 3 and 4 coding problems, respectively) based on this sustainability metric. On the …","The increasing use of information technology has led to a significant share of energy consumption and carbon emissions from data centers. These contributions are expected to rise with the growing demand for big data analytics, increasing digitization, and the development of large artificial intelligence (AI) models. The need to address the environmental impact of software development has led to increased interest in green (sustainable) coding and claims that the use of AI models can lead to energy efficiency gains. Here, we provide an empirical study on green code and an overview of green coding practices, as well as metrics used to quantify the sustainability awareness of AI models. In this framework, we evaluate the sustainability of auto-generated code. The auto-generate codes considered in this study are produced by generative commercial AI language models, GitHub Copilot, OpenAI ChatGPT-3, and Amazon CodeWhisperer. Within our methodology, in order to quantify the sustainability awareness of these AI models, we propose a definition of the code's""green capacity"", based on certain sustainability metrics. We compare the performance and green capacity of human-generated code and code generated by the three AI language models in response to easy-to-hard problem statements. Our findings shed light on the current capacity of AI models to contribute to sustainable software development."
"Integration of AI-assisted Code Generation in Programming Assessments","https://scispace.com/paper/nGurDSFQJ6EJ","","","","I Cheheb","","https://figshare.edgehill.ac.uk/articles/poster/Integration_of_AI-assisted_Code_Generationin_Programming_Assessments/25202681/1/files/44501558.pdf","… via Conversational AI tools such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Google’s Bard has taken the world … writing are also appearing such as Github Copilot and Amazon Code Whisperer that are …",""
"A Multi-Dimensional Quality Evaluation of Code Generated by LLM-Based Tools Across Multiple Programming Languages","https://scispace.com/paper/7WOUYqzTVbsJ","","","","R Li
R Mo
Y Zeng
Z Liu
Z Li
Y Ma","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3800582","… code quality … evaluations of these tools’ code quality remain limited. In this paper, we conduct a systematic comparison of five mainstream code generation tools, including GitHub Copilot…",""
"Assessment on the effectiveness of github copilot as a code assistance tool: an empirical study","https://scispace.com/paper/assessment-on-the-effectiveness-of-github-copilot-as-a-code-1ib6t5oj32n5","","Journal Article","","Carlos Adriano Gonçalves
Célia Talma Martins de Pinho Valente Oliveira Gonçalves","10.1007/978-3-031-73503-5_3","","… , which potentially introduces errors or vulnerabilities during the code generation process [9, 10]. With this work, we aim to empirically study if GitHub Copilot, as a pair programming tool, …",""
"The recent trends of research on GitHub copilot: A systematic review","https://scispace.com/paper/the-recent-trends-of-research-on-github-copilot-a-systematic-43aj6yifov","2024","Book Chapter","Communications in computer and information science","Zhamri Che Ani
Zauridah Abdul Hamid
Nur Nazifa Zhamri","10.1007/978-981-99-9589-9_27","","… GitHub Copilot is an AI-powered code generation tool developed by OpenAI and GitHub that has gained significant attention from the software engineering community. Despite the …","GitHub Copilot is an AI-powered code generation tool developed by OpenAI and GitHub that has gained significant attention from the software engineering community. Despite the significant attention received from the software engineering community, there is a lack of comprehensive examination of its effectiveness, reliability, and ethical implications on GitHub Copilot. The absence of a systematic review of GitHub Copilot's recent research trends hinders a thorough understanding of its current state of development and potential impact on software development practices. Therefore, this systematic review aims to analyze the recent trends of research on GitHub Copilot to assess its current state of development, identify gaps in existing knowledge, and provide insights into potential future research directions. This study used PRISMA for searching the relevant databases, screening and selecting eligible studies based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, data extraction and synthesis, and critical appraisal of the quality and relevance of the studies included. The results show that the trend of the studies is focusing on four main areas: developer productivity, code quality, code security and education. "
"Analyzing developer use of chatgpt generated code in open source github projects","https://scispace.com/paper/analyzing-developer-use-of-chatgpt-generated-code-in-open-2cw1xwirk4","2024","Book","","Balreet Grewal
Wentao Lu
Sarah Nadi
Cor-Paul Bezemer","10.1145/3643991.3645072","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3643991.3645072","… conducted an empirical study of 3,044 ChatGPT-generated code snippets integrated within … AI-assisted programming tools. We highlight the importance of making changes in ChatGPT …","The rapid development of large language models such as ChatGPT have made them particularly useful to developers in generating code snippets for their projects. To understand how ChatGPT’s generated code is leveraged by developers, we conducted an empirical study of 3,044 ChatGPT-generated code snippets integrated within GitHub projects. A median of 54% of the generated lines of code is found in the project’s code and this code typically remains unchanged once added. The modifications of the 76 code snippets that changed in a subsequent commit, consisted of minor functionality changes and code reorganizations that were made within a day. Our findings offer insights that help drive the development of AI-assisted programming tools. We highlight the importance of making changes in ChatGPT code before integrating it into a project."
"Generative ai for code generation: Software reuse implications","https://scispace.com/paper/generative-ai-for-code-generation-software-reuse-3uubf0jrxf","2024","Journal Article","Lecture Notes in Computer Science","Georgia M. Kapitsaki","10.1007/978-3-031-66459-5_3","","… Developers are relying on ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot or other tools to accelerate the development process. Previous works have provided an overview of the tools and have compared …",""
"A Systematic Literature Review of the Practical Applications of Artificial Intelligence-Generated Content (AIGC) Using OpenAI ChatGPT, Copilot, and Codex in …","https://scispace.com/paper/XIH_CIgX-rYJ","","","","CI Chang
WC Choi
IC Choi
H Lei","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3719487.3719519","… education, including evaluating AI performance in solving programming tasks, providing AI-driven code generation and assistance, automating assessment review and feedback, …",""
"How Effective are LLMs for Data Science Coding? A Controlled Experiment","https://scispace.com/paper/how-effective-are-llms-for-data-science-coding-a-controlled-ix71wjyg2q0y","2025","Proceedings Article","","Nathalia Nascimento
Everton Guimaraes
Sai Sanjna Chintakunta
Santhosh Anitha Boominathan","10.1109/msr66628.2025.00041","","… in automating code generation for data science problems. Our contributions are multifold: … However, our findings indicate that only ChatGPT consistently maintains performance across …",""
"Large language models for code generation: A comprehensive survey of challenges, techniques, evaluation, and applications","https://scispace.com/paper/large-language-models-for-code-generation-a-comprehensive-p37hc470i602","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Nam Huynh
Beiyu Lin","10.48550/arxiv.2503.01245","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.01245?","… review the existing metrics and benchmarks for evaluations … , GitHub Copilot, ToolGen) in code generation tasks to … overview of LLMs for code generation, helps researchers in diverse …",""
"Where Is Self-admitted Code Generated by Large Language Models on GitHub?","https://scispace.com/paper/j5km1tFyJ70J","","","","X Yu
L Liu
X Hu
J Liu
X Xia","","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.19544","… ChatGPT and Copilot dominate code generation, with minimal contributions from other LLMs. (2) Projects containing ChatGPT/… (3) ChatGPT/Copilot-generated code generally is a minor …",""
"Evaluating Code Generation of LLMs in Advanced Computer Science Problems","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluating-code-generation-of-llms-in-advanced-computer-j1zcpo4xtdix","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Emir Catir
Robin Claesson
Rodothea Myrsini Tsoupidi","10.48550/arxiv.2504.14964","https://romits800.github.io/publications/aied2025.pdf","… When we provided the problem prompt in Figure 1 to Github Copilot, the tool generated the code in Listing 1. The code defines a function pack_items, which takes as input the capacity …",""
"Generating Java methods: An empirical assessment of four AI-based code assistants","https://scispace.com/paper/generating-java-methods-an-empirical-assessment-of-four-ai-v7736h8z5f","2024","Journal Article","","Vincenzo Corso
Leonardo Mariani
Daniela Micucci
Oliviero Riganelli","10.1145/3643916.3644402","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3643916.3644402","… codebase, and adapting the code generation routine to the specific … (GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT). The study reported the highest success rate for ChatGPT, …","AI-based code assistants are promising tools that can facilitate and speed up code development. They exploit machine learning algorithms and natural language processing to interact with developers, suggesting code snippets (e.g., method implementations) that can be incorporated into projects. Recent studies empirically investigated the effectiveness of code assistants using simple exemplary problems (e.g., the re-implementation of well-known algorithms), which fail to capture the spectrum and nature of the tasks actually faced by developers. In this paper, we expand the knowledge in the area by comparatively assessing four popular AI-based code assistants, namely GitHub Copilot, Tabnine, ChatGPT, and Google Bard, with a dataset of 100 methods that we constructed from real-life open-source Java projects, considering a variety of cases for complexity and dependency from contextual elements. Results show that Copilot is often more accurate than other techniques, yet none of the assistants is completely subsumed by the rest of the approaches. Interestingly, the effectiveness of these solutions dramatically decreases when dealing with dependencies outside the boundaries of single classes."
"Hands-on use and adaptation of AI in developing and testing software applications","https://scispace.com/paper/yab4JsfRpuEJ","","","","M Haeggström","","https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1897558/FULLTEXT01.pdf","… OpenAI’s ChatGPT, comparing their effectiveness in code generation and analyzes their capabilities, benefits, and challenges. The study combines a literature review and a practical …",""
"The Effects of AI-Assisted Programming in Software Engineering: A Study on GitHub Copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/qgFBltelYs8J","","","","PN Suryavanshi
RD Jadhav","","https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm?abstractid=5742364","… This study investigates the transformative impact of AI-assisted programming through tools like GitHub Copilot on the field of software engineering. With rising reliance on generative AI (…",""
"Beyond code assistance with gpt-4: Leveraging github copilot and chatgpt for peer review in vse engineering","https://scispace.com/paper/O5t5l3rIzWsJ","","","","RE Georgsen","","https://www.ntnu.no/ojs/index.php/nikt/article/download/5674/5113","… proving code quality. LLMs have been evaluated for their effectiveness in code generation … felt more confident in their code quality when authoring with GitHub Copilot. Moreover, code …",""
"Toward artificial intelligence-human paired programming: A review of the educational applications and research on artificial intelligence code-generation tools","https://scispace.com/paper/toward-artificial-intelligence-human-paired-programming-a-1ahciat4lz","2024","Journal Article","Journal of Educational Computing Research","Jiangyue Liu
Siran Li","10.1177/07356331241240460","","… on evaluating the performance of AI code-generation tools. … conducted on the performance of AI-assisted programming tools, a … of code generation: Github Copilot, Codex, and ChatGPT. …","Pair Programming is considered an effective approach to programming education, but the synchronous collaboration of two programmers involves complex coordination, making this method difficult to be widely adopted in educational settings. Artificial Intelligence (AI) code-generation tools have outstanding capabilities in program generation and natural language understanding, creating conducive conditions for pairing with humans in programming. Now some more mature tools are gradually being implemented. This review summarizes the current status of educational applications and research on AI-assisted programming technology. Through thematic coding of literature, existing research focuses on five aspects: underlying technology and tool introduction, performance evaluation, the potential impacts and coping strategies, exploration of behavioral patterns in technological application, and ethical and safety issues. A systematic analysis of current literature provides the following insights for future academic research related to the practice of “human-machine pairing” in programming: (1) Affirming the value of AI code-generation tools while also clearly defining their technical limitations and ethical risks; (2) Developing adaptive teaching ecosystems and educational models, conducting comprehensive empirical research to explore the efficiency mechanisms of AI-human paired programming; (3) Further enriching the application of research methods by integrating speculative research with empirical research, combining traditional methods with emerging technologies."
"How Are We Doing With Using AI-Based Programming Assistants For Privacy-Related Code Generation? The Developers' Experience","https://scispace.com/paper/BiiXFVX3rw4J","","","","K Madampe
J Grundy
N Arachchilage","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3756681.3757035","… The authors found that ChatGPT struggles to generate code for new and unseen problems. … slightly outperforms ChatGPT when answering privacy questions, but ChatGPT generated …",""
"Is AI Code Generation Undermining Developers' Problem‑Solving Skills?","https://scispace.com/paper/-oVCAfD_COIJ","","","","M Nazir
Y Arif","","https://www.icck.org/filebob/uploads/storage/JSE_FyL0HuDVujarkKO0C.pdf","… The rise of AI tools such as GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT has reshaped software development by providing substantial support for coding and debugging tasks. Although these tools …",""
"Generative AI for software development: A family of studies on code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/generative-ai-for-software-development-a-family-of-studies-19l9c0q1go","2024","Book Chapter","","Arghavan Moradi Dakhel
Amin Nikanjam
Foutse Khomh
Michel C. Desmarais
Hironori Washizaki","10.1007/978-3-031-55642-5_7","","… The experiences of developers in using tools such as Copilot or ChatGPT show that these tools assist them in quickly completing programming tasks [5, 31]. Other studies show that …","The rapid advancements in generative artificial intelligence (AI) offer multiple opportunities for its application in various domains, including software engineering (SE). This chapter explores the benefits and challenges of utilizing generative AI for different activities in the software development cycle that involve code generation. We review different approaches leveraging generative AI, either independently or in combination with traditional SE techniques, to complete a diverse set of tasks including feature implementation, generating test cases, and repairing programs. Additionally, we discuss the potential pitfalls of using generative AI to perform such SE tasks, as well as the quality of the code generated by these models. Finally, we explore research opportunities in harnessing generative AI, with a particular emphasis on tasks that require code generation. "
"Context Engineering for Multi-Agent LLM Code Assistants Using Elicit, NotebookLM, ChatGPT, and Claude Code","https://scispace.com/paper/context-engineering-for-multi-agent-llm-code-assistants-cvoqe4a33fyw","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Muhammad Haseeb","10.48550/arxiv.2508.08322","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.08322","… understanding, and a Claude Code multi-agent system for code generation and validation. … -of-the-art performance. Finally, we discuss the implications for deploying LLM-based coding …","Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promise in automating code generation and software engineering tasks, yet they often struggle with complex, multi-file projects due to context limitations and knowledge gaps. We propose a novel context engineering workflow that combines multiple AI components: an Intent Translator (GPT-5) for clarifying user requirements, an Elicit-powered semantic literature retrieval for injecting domain knowledge, NotebookLM-based document synthesis for contextual understanding, and a Claude Code multi-agent system for code generation and validation. Our integrated approach leverages intent clarification, retrieval-augmented generation, and specialized sub-agents orchestrated via Claude's agent framework. We demonstrate that this method significantly improves the accuracy and reliability of code assistants in real-world repositories, yielding higher single-shot success rates and better adherence to project context than baseline single-agent approaches. Qualitative results on a large Next.js codebase show the multi-agent system effectively plans, edits, and tests complex features with minimal human intervention. We compare our system with recent frameworks like CodePlan, MASAI, and HyperAgent, highlighting how targeted context injection and agent role decomposition lead to state-of-the-art performance. Finally, we discuss the implications for deploying LLM-based coding assistants in production, along with lessons learned on context management and future research directions."
"Coding with ai: How are tools like chatgpt being used by students in foundational programming courses","https://scispace.com/paper/coding-with-ai-how-are-tools-like-chatgpt-being-used-by-4l25b7hfws","2024","Journal Article","Lecture Notes in Computer Science","Ashish Ghimire
John Edwards","10.1007/978-3-031-64299-9_20","","… to ChatGPT, powered by GPT-4, while working on Introductory Computer Programming (CS1) assignments, addressing a gap in empirical … usage patterns of ChatGPT among students, …",""
"Enhancing Developer Productivity: Benchmarking LLM-Powered Tools like GitHub Copilot and TabNine in Real-Time Coding Environments","https://scispace.com/paper/enhancing-developer-productivity-benchmarking-llm-powered-yvjf303q63hf","2025","Journal Article","","Faten Slama
Daniel Lemire","10.1109/ids66066.2025.00011","","… on their impact on productivity, debugging correctness, and workflow … ) GitHub Copilot and TabNine, both extensions for Visual Studio Code. This benchmarking of their performance …",""
"Enhancing security of AI-based code synthesis with GitHub copilot via cheap and efficient prompt-engineering","https://scispace.com/paper/enhancing-security-of-ai-based-code-synthesis-with-github-z17kzsud56","2024","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Jakub Res
Ivan Homoliak
Martin Peresíni
Aleš Smrčka
Kamil Malinka
Petr Hanacek","10.48550/arxiv.2403.12671","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.12671?","… to study various ways of improving code security generated by any proprietary Large Language Models (LLMs), and we demonstrate our approach on the well-known GitHub Copilot [6]. …","AI assistants for coding are on the rise. However one of the reasons developers and companies avoid harnessing their full potential is the questionable security of the generated code. This paper first reviews the current state-of-the-art and identifies areas for improvement on this issue. Then, we propose a systematic approach based on prompt-altering methods to achieve better code security of (even proprietary black-box) AI-based code generators such as GitHub Copilot, while minimizing the complexity of the application from the user point-of-view, the computational resources, and operational costs. In sum, we propose and evaluate three prompt altering methods: (1) scenario-specific, (2) iterative, and (3) general clause, while we discuss their combination. Contrary to the audit of code security, the latter two of the proposed methods require no expert knowledge from the user. We assess the effectiveness of the proposed methods on the GitHub Copilot using the OpenVPN project in realistic scenarios, and we demonstrate that the proposed methods reduce the number of insecure generated code samples by up to 16\% and increase the number of secure code by up to 8\%. Since our approach does not require access to the internals of the AI models, it can be in general applied to any AI-based code synthesizer, not only GitHub Copilot."
"Detecting test smells in python test code generated by LLM: An empirical study with GitHub copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/detecting-test-smells-in-python-test-code-generated-by-llm-33y5cxk6wnoy","2024","Journal Article","","Victor Alves
Cristiano da Silva Santos
Carla Bezerra
Ivan Machado","10.5753/sbes.2024.3561","https://sol.sbc.org.br/index.php/sbes/article/download/30398/30204","… evaluate the quality of these generated tests. In this context, this study aims to measure the quality of the test codes generated by GitHub Copilot … its capability in test code generation [7, …","Writing unit tests is a time-consuming and labor-intensive development practice. Consequently, various techniques for automatically generating unit tests have been studied. Among them, the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) has recently emerged as a popular approach for automatically generating tests from natural language descriptions. Although many recent studies are dedicated to measuring the ability of LLMs to write valid unit tests, few evaluate the quality of these generated tests. In this context, this study aims to measure the quality of the test codes generated by GitHub Copilot in Python by detecting test smells in the test cases generated. To do this, we used approaches to generating unit tests by LLMs that have already been applied in the literature and collected a sample of 194 unit test cases in 30 Python test files. We then measured them using tools specialized in detecting test smells in Python. Finally, we conducted an evaluation of these test cases with software developers and software quality assurance professionals. Our results indicated that 47.4% of the tests generated by Copilot had at least one test smell detected, with a lack of documentation in the assertions being the most common quality problem. These findings indicate that although GitHub Copilot can generate valid unit tests, quality violations are still frequently found in these codes. "
"Evaluating Code Generation of LLMs in Advanced Computer Science Problems","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluating-code-generation-of-llms-in-advanced-computer-j1zcpo4xtdix","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Emir Catir
Robin Claesson
Rodothea Myrsini Tsoupidi","10.48550/arxiv.2504.14964","https://romits800.github.io/publications/aied2025.pdf","… When we provided the problem prompt in Figure 1 to Github Copilot, the tool generated the code in Listing 1. The code defines a function pack_items, which takes as input the capacity …",""
"Assessing AI-Based Code Generation using Code Comments","https://scispace.com/paper/_osysXXV85wJ","","","","T Sekar
R ElKharboutly","","","… generated by GitHub Copilot, Tabnine, ChatGPT, … ChatGPT with respect to Python code generation [16]. The results of this study conclude that DeepSeek constantly surpasses ChatGPT…",""
"Generating Java methods: An empirical assessment of four AI-based code assistants","https://scispace.com/paper/generating-java-methods-an-empirical-assessment-of-four-ai-v7736h8z5f","2024","Journal Article","","Vincenzo Corso
Leonardo Mariani
Daniela Micucci
Oliviero Riganelli","10.1145/3643916.3644402","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3643916.3644402","… codebase, and adapting the code generation routine to the specific … (GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT). The study reported the highest success rate for ChatGPT, …","AI-based code assistants are promising tools that can facilitate and speed up code development. They exploit machine learning algorithms and natural language processing to interact with developers, suggesting code snippets (e.g., method implementations) that can be incorporated into projects. Recent studies empirically investigated the effectiveness of code assistants using simple exemplary problems (e.g., the re-implementation of well-known algorithms), which fail to capture the spectrum and nature of the tasks actually faced by developers. In this paper, we expand the knowledge in the area by comparatively assessing four popular AI-based code assistants, namely GitHub Copilot, Tabnine, ChatGPT, and Google Bard, with a dataset of 100 methods that we constructed from real-life open-source Java projects, considering a variety of cases for complexity and dependency from contextual elements. Results show that Copilot is often more accurate than other techniques, yet none of the assistants is completely subsumed by the rest of the approaches. Interestingly, the effectiveness of these solutions dramatically decreases when dealing with dependencies outside the boundaries of single classes."
"Hands-on use and adaptation of AI in developing and testing software applications","https://scispace.com/paper/yab4JsfRpuEJ","","","","M Haeggström","","https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1897558/FULLTEXT01.pdf","… OpenAI’s ChatGPT, comparing their effectiveness in code generation and analyzes their capabilities, benefits, and challenges. The study combines a literature review and a practical …",""
"The Effects of AI-Assisted Programming in Software Engineering: A Study on GitHub Copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/qgFBltelYs8J","","","","PN Suryavanshi
RD Jadhav","","https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm?abstractid=5742364","… This study investigates the transformative impact of AI-assisted programming through tools like GitHub Copilot on the field of software engineering. With rising reliance on generative AI (…",""
"Beyond code assistance with gpt-4: Leveraging github copilot and chatgpt for peer review in vse engineering","https://scispace.com/paper/O5t5l3rIzWsJ","","","","RE Georgsen","","https://www.ntnu.no/ojs/index.php/nikt/article/download/5674/5113","… proving code quality. LLMs have been evaluated for their effectiveness in code generation … felt more confident in their code quality when authoring with GitHub Copilot. Moreover, code …",""
"Toward artificial intelligence-human paired programming: A review of the educational applications and research on artificial intelligence code-generation tools","https://scispace.com/paper/toward-artificial-intelligence-human-paired-programming-a-1ahciat4lz","2024","Journal Article","Journal of Educational Computing Research","Jiangyue Liu
Siran Li","10.1177/07356331241240460","","… on evaluating the performance of AI code-generation tools. … conducted on the performance of AI-assisted programming tools, a … of code generation: Github Copilot, Codex, and ChatGPT. …","Pair Programming is considered an effective approach to programming education, but the synchronous collaboration of two programmers involves complex coordination, making this method difficult to be widely adopted in educational settings. Artificial Intelligence (AI) code-generation tools have outstanding capabilities in program generation and natural language understanding, creating conducive conditions for pairing with humans in programming. Now some more mature tools are gradually being implemented. This review summarizes the current status of educational applications and research on AI-assisted programming technology. Through thematic coding of literature, existing research focuses on five aspects: underlying technology and tool introduction, performance evaluation, the potential impacts and coping strategies, exploration of behavioral patterns in technological application, and ethical and safety issues. A systematic analysis of current literature provides the following insights for future academic research related to the practice of “human-machine pairing” in programming: (1) Affirming the value of AI code-generation tools while also clearly defining their technical limitations and ethical risks; (2) Developing adaptive teaching ecosystems and educational models, conducting comprehensive empirical research to explore the efficiency mechanisms of AI-human paired programming; (3) Further enriching the application of research methods by integrating speculative research with empirical research, combining traditional methods with emerging technologies."
"How Are We Doing With Using AI-Based Programming Assistants For Privacy-Related Code Generation? The Developers' Experience","https://scispace.com/paper/BiiXFVX3rw4J","","","","K Madampe
J Grundy
N Arachchilage","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3756681.3757035","… The authors found that ChatGPT struggles to generate code for new and unseen problems. … slightly outperforms ChatGPT when answering privacy questions, but ChatGPT generated …",""
"AI Code Generation Tools–Experience and Perspectives of Computer Science Students","https://scispace.com/paper/8sX759bvYK8J","","","","TG Anderson","","","… of AI code generation tools, particularly ChatGPT, among … of ChatGPT assistance. This was followed by an extensive online questionnaire designed to explore the AI code generation …",""
"Generative AI for software development: A family of studies on code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/generative-ai-for-software-development-a-family-of-studies-19l9c0q1go","2024","Book Chapter","","Arghavan Moradi Dakhel
Amin Nikanjam
Foutse Khomh
Michel C. Desmarais
Hironori Washizaki","10.1007/978-3-031-55642-5_7","","… The experiences of developers in using tools such as Copilot or ChatGPT show that these tools assist them in quickly completing programming tasks [5, 31]. Other studies show that …","The rapid advancements in generative artificial intelligence (AI) offer multiple opportunities for its application in various domains, including software engineering (SE). This chapter explores the benefits and challenges of utilizing generative AI for different activities in the software development cycle that involve code generation. We review different approaches leveraging generative AI, either independently or in combination with traditional SE techniques, to complete a diverse set of tasks including feature implementation, generating test cases, and repairing programs. Additionally, we discuss the potential pitfalls of using generative AI to perform such SE tasks, as well as the quality of the code generated by these models. Finally, we explore research opportunities in harnessing generative AI, with a particular emphasis on tasks that require code generation. "
"Context Engineering for Multi-Agent LLM Code Assistants Using Elicit, NotebookLM, ChatGPT, and Claude Code","https://scispace.com/paper/context-engineering-for-multi-agent-llm-code-assistants-cvoqe4a33fyw","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Muhammad Haseeb","10.48550/arxiv.2508.08322","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.08322","… understanding, and a Claude Code multi-agent system for code generation and validation. … -of-the-art performance. Finally, we discuss the implications for deploying LLM-based coding …","Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promise in automating code generation and software engineering tasks, yet they often struggle with complex, multi-file projects due to context limitations and knowledge gaps. We propose a novel context engineering workflow that combines multiple AI components: an Intent Translator (GPT-5) for clarifying user requirements, an Elicit-powered semantic literature retrieval for injecting domain knowledge, NotebookLM-based document synthesis for contextual understanding, and a Claude Code multi-agent system for code generation and validation. Our integrated approach leverages intent clarification, retrieval-augmented generation, and specialized sub-agents orchestrated via Claude's agent framework. We demonstrate that this method significantly improves the accuracy and reliability of code assistants in real-world repositories, yielding higher single-shot success rates and better adherence to project context than baseline single-agent approaches. Qualitative results on a large Next.js codebase show the multi-agent system effectively plans, edits, and tests complex features with minimal human intervention. We compare our system with recent frameworks like CodePlan, MASAI, and HyperAgent, highlighting how targeted context injection and agent role decomposition lead to state-of-the-art performance. Finally, we discuss the implications for deploying LLM-based coding assistants in production, along with lessons learned on context management and future research directions."
"Enhancing Developer Productivity: Benchmarking LLM-Powered Tools like GitHub Copilot and TabNine in Real-Time Coding Environments","https://scispace.com/paper/enhancing-developer-productivity-benchmarking-llm-powered-yvjf303q63hf","2025","Journal Article","","Faten Slama
Daniel Lemire","10.1109/ids66066.2025.00011","","… on their impact on productivity, debugging correctness, and workflow … ) GitHub Copilot and TabNine, both extensions for Visual Studio Code. This benchmarking of their performance …",""
"Enhancing security of AI-based code synthesis with GitHub copilot via cheap and efficient prompt-engineering","https://scispace.com/paper/enhancing-security-of-ai-based-code-synthesis-with-github-z17kzsud56","2024","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Jakub Res
Ivan Homoliak
Martin Peresíni
Aleš Smrčka
Kamil Malinka
Petr Hanacek","10.48550/arxiv.2403.12671","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.12671?","… to study various ways of improving code security generated by any proprietary Large Language Models (LLMs), and we demonstrate our approach on the well-known GitHub Copilot [6]. …","AI assistants for coding are on the rise. However one of the reasons developers and companies avoid harnessing their full potential is the questionable security of the generated code. This paper first reviews the current state-of-the-art and identifies areas for improvement on this issue. Then, we propose a systematic approach based on prompt-altering methods to achieve better code security of (even proprietary black-box) AI-based code generators such as GitHub Copilot, while minimizing the complexity of the application from the user point-of-view, the computational resources, and operational costs. In sum, we propose and evaluate three prompt altering methods: (1) scenario-specific, (2) iterative, and (3) general clause, while we discuss their combination. Contrary to the audit of code security, the latter two of the proposed methods require no expert knowledge from the user. We assess the effectiveness of the proposed methods on the GitHub Copilot using the OpenVPN project in realistic scenarios, and we demonstrate that the proposed methods reduce the number of insecure generated code samples by up to 16\% and increase the number of secure code by up to 8\%. Since our approach does not require access to the internals of the AI models, it can be in general applied to any AI-based code synthesizer, not only GitHub Copilot."
"Usage of large language model for code generation tasks: A review","https://scispace.com/paper/usage-of-large-language-model-for-code-generation-tasks-a-31bf2cgjeyrp","2025","Journal Article","SN computer science","Stefano Bistarelli
Marco Fiore
Ivan Mercanti
Marina Mongiello","10.1007/s42979-025-04241-5","https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s42979-025-04241-5.pdf","… potential for ChatGPT to enhance productivity in … ChatGPT’s code generation performance from diverse perspectives across social media platforms. The analysis reveals that ChatGPT is …",""
"Assessing the promise and pitfalls of ChatGPT for automated code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/assessing-the-promise-and-pitfalls-of-chatgpt-for-automated-4ntscyo8r9","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Muhammad Fawad Akbar Khan
Max Ramsdell
Erik Falor
Hamid Karimi","10.48550/arxiv.2311.02640","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.02640","… evaluation of the code generation capabilities of ChatGPT, a prominent large language model, compared to human programmers. A novel dataset of 131 code-generation … ChatGPT and …","This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of the code generation capabilities of ChatGPT, a prominent large language model, compared to human programmers. A novel dataset of 131 code-generation prompts across 5 categories was curated to enable robust analysis. Code solutions were generated by both ChatGPT and humans for all prompts, resulting in 262 code samples. A meticulous manual assessment methodology prioritized evaluating correctness, comprehensibility, and security using 14 established code quality metrics. The key findings reveal ChatGPT's strengths in crafting concise, efficient code with advanced constructs, showcasing strengths in data analysis tasks (93.1% accuracy) but limitations in visual-graphical challenges. Comparative analysis with human code highlights ChatGPT's inclination towards modular design and superior error handling. Additionally, machine learning models effectively distinguished ChatGPT from human code with up to 88% accuracy, suggesting detectable coding style disparities. By providing profound insights into ChatGPT's code generation capabilities and limitations through quantitative metrics and qualitative analysis, this study makes valuable contributions toward advancing AI-based programming assistants. The curated dataset and methodology offer a robust foundation for future research in this nascent domain. All data and codes are available on https://github.com/DSAatUSU/ChatGPT-promises-and-pitfalls."
"Security Evaluation of AI-Generated Code: A Comparative Study of ChatGPT, Copilot, And Gemini through Static and Dynamic Analysis","https://scispace.com/paper/security-evaluation-of-ai-generated-code-a-comparative-study-il9b3wn1vpm0","2025","Journal Article","Gazi mühendislik bilimleri dergisi","Onur Ceran","10.30855/gmbd.070525a13","https://dergipark.org.tr/en/download/article-file/4964707","… these tools provide distinct advantages in code generation, they also introduce varying levels of … LLMs toward adherence to standard coding practices during source code generation. …",""
"A systematic literature review on the impact of AI models on the security of code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/a-systematic-literature-review-on-the-impact-of-ai-models-on-xhaaiisa52","2024","Journal Article","Frontiers in big data","Claudia Negri-Ribalta
Rémi Geraud-Stewart
Anastasia Sergeeva
Gabriele Lenzini","10.3389/fdata.2024.1386720","https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/big-data/articles/10.3389/fdata.2024.1386720/pdf","… is an idea that dates back at least as far back as the public release of OpenAI's ChatGPT. … code acceptation between GitHub Copilot and its bare model OpenAI Codex. The exploration …","Artificial Intelligence (AI) is increasingly used as a helper to develop computing programs. While it can boost software development and improve coding proficiency, this practice offers no guarantee of security. On the contrary, recent research shows that some AI models produce software with vulnerabilities. This situation leads to the question: How serious and widespread are the security flaws in code generated using AI models?Through a systematic literature review, this work reviews the state of the art on how AI models impact software security. It systematizes the knowledge about the risks of using AI in coding security-critical software.It reviews what security flaws of well-known vulnerabilities (e.g., the MITRE CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Weaknesses) are commonly hidden in AI-generated code. It also reviews works that discuss how vulnerabilities in AI-generated code can be exploited to compromise security and lists the attempts to improve the security of such AI-generated code.Overall, this work provides a comprehensive and systematic overview of the impact of AI in secure coding. This topic has sparked interest and concern within the software security engineering community. It highlights the importance of setting up security measures and processes, such as code verification, and that such practices could be customized for AI-aided code production."
"Navigating software development in the ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot era","https://scispace.com/paper/navigating-software-development-in-the-chatgpt-and-github-4q0js2e96v","2024","Journal Article","Business Horizons","Stephen L. France","10.1016/j.bushor.2024.05.009","","… of a trial version of the chatbot ChatGPT. ChatGPT was developed by OpenAI utilizing the GPT-3 … ChatGPT and similar LLMs can generate creative output from simple user prompts and …","Generative AI (artificial intelligence) technologies using LLMs (large language models), such as ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot, with the ability to create code, have the potential to change the software development landscape. Will this process be incremental, with software developers learning generative AI skills to supplement their existing skills, or will the process be more destructive, with the loss of large numbers of development jobs and a radical change in the responsibilities of the remaining developers? Given the rapid growth of AI capabilities, it is impossible to provide a crystal ball, but this article aims to give insight into the adoption of generative AI with LLMs in software development. The article gives an overview of the software development industry and the job functions of software developers. A literature review combined with a content analysis of online comments from developers gives insight into how generative AI implemented with LLMs is changing software development and how developers are responding to these changes. The article ties the academic and developer insights together into recommendations for software developers, and describes a CMM (capability maturity model) framework for assessing and improving LLM development usage. "
"Guiding chatgpt for better code generation: An empirical study","https://scispace.com/paper/guiding-chatgpt-for-better-code-generation-an-empirical-3wthbnu0ge","2024","Journal Article","","Chao Liu
Xuanlin Bao
Hongyu Zhang
Neng Zhang
Haibo Hu
Xiaohong Zhang
Kaiping Zhang","10.1109/saner60148.2024.00018","https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lZHcKidFSHirxOG05UONQmAV7mxQgBvX/view","… report an empirical study that investigate the capability of ChatGPT in code generation with … We have conducted an evaluation of ChatGPT’s code generation capabilities using the …","Automated code generation is a powerful technique for software development, which can significantly reduce developers' effort and time for writing code. Recently, OpenAI's large language model ChatGPT has emerged as a powerful tool for generating human-like responses to a wide range of textual inputs (i.e., prompts), including those related to code generation. However, the effectiveness of ChatGPT in code generation is still not well understood. The code generation performance could also be heavily influenced by the choice of prompts, which should be further explored. In this paper, we report an empirical study on ChatGPT's capabilities for two types of code generation tasks, namely text-to-code and code-to-code generation. We investigate different types of prompts by leveraging the chain-of-thought strategy with multi-step optimizations. Our empirical results show that by carefully designing prompts to guide ChatGPT, the code generation performance can be improved substantially. We also analyze the factors that influence the prompt design and provide insights that could guide future research."
"Can chatgpt support developers? an empirical evaluation of large language models for code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/can-chatgpt-support-developers-an-empirical-evaluation-of-1258n9yqdv","2024","Journal Article","","Kailun Jin
Chung-Yu Wang
Hung Viet Pham
Hadi Hemmati","10.1145/3643991.3645074","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3643991.3645074","… evaluate the limitations and practicality of applying ChatGPT in real-world data practice. To address this evaluation … have a conversation with ChatGPT for code generation and how they …","Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated notable proficiency in code generation, with numerous prior studies showing their promising capabilities in various development scenarios. However, these studies mainly provide evaluations in research settings, which leaves a significant gap in understanding how effectively LLMs can support developers in real-world. To address this, we conducted an empirical analysis of conversations in DevGPT, a dataset collected from developers' conversations with ChatGPT (captured with the Share Link feature on platforms such as GitHub). Our empirical findings indicate that the current practice of using LLM-generated code is typically limited to either demonstrating high-level concepts or providing examples in documentation, rather than to be used as production-ready code. These findings indicate that there is much future work needed to improve LLMs in code generation before they can be integral parts of modern software development."
"Comparative study of ai code generation tools: quality assessment and performance analysis","https://scispace.com/paper/comparative-study-of-ai-code-generation-tools-quality-69cue8r5s2u1","2024","Journal Article","","M.C. Munoz
Juan Camilo Jaramillo De La Torre
Sheyla Maribel Blas López
Stiven Herrera
Christian Andrés Candela Uribe","10.62486/latia2024104","https://dialnet.unirioja.es/descarga/articulo/9873203.pdf","… observed that the GitHub Copilot tool presented the lowest performance in the evaluation, with … identified: the Textsynth and Amazon CodeWhisperer tools were discarded after the third …","Artificial intelligence (AI) code generation tools are crucial in software development, processing natural language to improve programming efficiency. Their increasing integration in various industries highlights their potential to transform the way programmers approach and execute software projects. The present research was conducted with the purpose of determining the accuracy and quality of code generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools. The study began with a systematic mapping of the literature to identify applicable AI tools. Databases such as ACM, Engineering Source, Academic Search Ultimate, IEEE Xplore and Scopus were consulted, from which 621 papers were initially extracted. After applying inclusion criteria, such as English-language papers in computing areas published between 2020 and 2024, 113 resources were selected. A further screening process reduced this number to 44 papers, which identified 11 AI tools for code generation. The method used was a comparative study in which ten programming exercises of varying levels of difficulty were designed and the results obtained from 4 of them are presented. The identified tools generated code for these exercises in different programming languages. The quality of the generated code was evaluated using the SonarQube static analyzer, considering aspects such as safety, reliability and maintainability. The results showed significant variations in code quality among the AI tools. Bing as a code generation tool showed slightly superior performance compared to others, although none stood out as a noticeably superior AI. In conclusion, the research evidenced that, although AI tools for code generation are promising, they still require a pilot to reach their full potential, giving evidence that there is still a long way to go. "
"Programming is hard-or at least it used to be: Educational opportunities and challenges of ai code generation","https://scispace.com/paper/AwosRmAlsGAJ","","","","BA Becker
P Denny
J Finnie-Ansley","","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3545945.3569759","… challenges presented by automated code generation tools. On the … Additionally, automated code generation tools can … OpenAI API8 and also powers GitHub Copilot9 which is billed as “…",""
"Accelerating software development with AI: exploring the impact of ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot.","https://scispace.com/paper/0mRfDz7vY80J","","","","I Solohubov
A Moroz
MY Tiahunova
HH Kyrychek","","https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3679/paper17.pdf","… – Copilot and ChatGPT. Their combination, serving as a tool for rapid code generation/… One of the recently released tools is OpenAI Codex from the GPT-3 project, which is used in …",""
"Security Vulnerabilities in AI-Generated Code: A Large-Scale Analysis of Public GitHub Repositories","https://scispace.com/paper/security-vulnerabilities-in-ai-generated-code-a-large-scale-pernlnl0ilv9","2025","Journal Article","","M Schreiber
P Tippe","10.48550/arxiv.2510.26103","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.26103","… differences in security performance, with GitHub Copilot achieving better … CodeWhisperer Footnote 4 completes our selection as a major cloud provider’s entry in the code generation …","This paper presents a comprehensive empirical analysis of security vulnerabilities in AI-generated code across public GitHub repositories. We collected and analyzed 7,703 files explicitly attributed to four major AI tools: ChatGPT (91.52\%), GitHub Copilot (7.50\%), Amazon CodeWhisperer (0.52\%), and Tabnine (0.46\%). Using CodeQL static analysis, we identified 4,241 Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) instances across 77 distinct vulnerability types. Our findings reveal that while 87.9\% of AI-generated code does not contain identifiable CWE-mapped vulnerabilities, significant patterns emerge regarding language-specific vulnerabilities and tool performance. Python consistently exhibited higher vulnerability rates (16.18\%-18.50\%) compared to JavaScript (8.66\%-8.99\%) and TypeScript (2.50\%-7.14\%) across all tools. We observed notable differences in security performance, with GitHub Copilot achieving better security density for Python (1,739 LOC per CWE) and TypeScript, while ChatGPT performed better for JavaScript. Additionally, we discovered widespread use of AI tools for documentation generation (39\% of collected files), an understudied application with implications for software maintainability. These findings extend previous work with a significantly larger dataset and provide valuable insights for developing language-specific and context-aware security practices for the responsible integration of AI-generated code into software development workflows. "
"Bugs in large language models generated code: An empirical study","https://scispace.com/paper/bugs-in-large-language-models-generated-code-an-empirical-4809oz2ll3","2024","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Florian Tambon
Arghavan Moradi Dakhel
Amin Nikanjam
Foutse Khomh
Michel C. Desmarais
Giuliano Antoniol","10.48550/arxiv.2403.08937","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.08937","… Given the increasing adoption of LLM-based code generation tools (eg, GitHub Copilot) in SE activities, it is critical to understand the characteristics of bugs contained in code …","Large Language Models (LLMs) for code have gained significant attention recently. They can generate code in different programming languages based on provided prompts, fulfilling a long-lasting dream in Software Engineering (SE), i.e., automatic code generation. Similar to human-written code, LLM-generated code is prone to bugs, and these bugs have not yet been thoroughly examined by the community. Given the increasing adoption of LLM-based code generation tools (e.g., GitHub Copilot) in SE activities, it is critical to understand the characteristics of bugs contained in code generated by LLMs. This paper examines a sample of 333 bugs collected from code generated using three leading LLMs (i.e., CodeGen, PanGu-Coder, and Codex) and identifies the following 10 distinctive bug patterns: Misinterpretations, Syntax Error, Silly Mistake, Prompt-biased code, Missing Corner Case, Wrong Input Type, Hallucinated Object, Wrong Attribute, Incomplete Generation, and Non-Prompted Consideration. The bug patterns are presented in the form of a taxonomy. The identified bug patterns are validated using an online survey with 34 LLM practitioners and researchers. The surveyed participants generally asserted the significance and prevalence of the bug patterns. Researchers and practitioners can leverage these findings to develop effective quality assurance techniques for LLM-generated code. This study sheds light on the distinctive characteristics of LLM-generated code."
"Empirical Evaluation of the Energy Impact of Large Language Models for Code Generation and Optimization","https://scispace.com/paper/kXa85EWSEu0J","","","","T Coignion","","https://theses.hal.science/tel-05369950/file/manuscript.pdf","… As all the LLMs (except GitHub Copilot) we evaluated were trained using datasets older than these problems, we avoid any data contamination. As these problems are published by …",""
"Expectation vs. experience: Evaluating the usability of code generation tools powered by large language models","https://scispace.com/paper/expectation-vs-experience-evaluating-the-usability-of-code-3c2fciyq","2022","Proceedings Article","CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Extended Abstracts","Priyan Vaithilingam
Tianyi Zhang
Elena L. Glassman","10.1145/3491101.3519665","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3491101.3519665","… This paper presents a user study with 24 participants on the usability of GitHub Copilot, a groundbreaking code generation tool empowered by an ultra-large language model. In …","Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLM) have made automatic code generation possible for real-world programming tasks in general-purpose programming languages such as Python. However, there are few human studies on the usability of these tools and how they fit the programming workflow. In this work, we conducted a within-subjects user study with 24 participants to understand how programmers use and perceive Copilot, a LLM-based code generation tool. We found that, while Copilot did not necessarily improve the task completion time or success rate, most participants preferred to use Copilot in daily programming tasks, since Copilot often provided a useful starting point and saved the effort of searching online. However, participants did face difficulties in understanding, editing, and debugging code snippets generated by Copilot, which significantly hindered their task-solving effectiveness. Finally, we highlighted several promising directions for improving the design of Copilot based on our observations and participants’ feedback."
"Code on demand: A comparative analysis of the efficiency understandability and self-correction capability of copilot chatgpt and gemini","https://scispace.com/paper/code-on-demand-a-comparative-analysis-of-the-efficiency-6p3mvilmk5ju","2024","Journal Article","","Samuel Silvestre Batista
Bruno Castelo Branco
Otávio Cury
Guilherme Avelino","10.1145/3701625.3701673","https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3701625.3701673","… AI code generation tools: GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT, and Gemini. We replicate and extend the study by Nguyen and Nadi, evaluating the tools’ performance … in performance between the …",""
"{CodexLeaks}: Privacy leaks from code generation language models in {GitHub} copilot","https://scispace.com/paper/CkM2E9DnGDYJ","","","","L Niu
S Mirza
Z Maradni
C Pöpper","","https://www.usenix.org/system/files/usenixsecurity23-niu.pdf","… We evaluate our technique on three diverse code generation LLMs: CodeParrot [1], Poly… , consisting of targeted prompt construction for code generation models, parameter tuning, and …",""
"From Developer Assistance to Complete Development Automation: A Workflow-Centric Framework for AI Code Generation","https://scispace.com/paper/from-developer-assistance-to-complete-development-automation-bv2fkje8j3wn","2025","Journal Article","","В. Д. Сонькин
Cătălin Tudose","10.20944/preprints202501.2340.v1","https://www.preprints.org/frontend/manuscript/6b6ffe9a6cd3518e4ceb88183170fda7/download_pub","… suggested have the highest correctness score for Java … assessment from [14], GitHub Copilot was able to generate valid code with a 91.5% success rate. Examining the code correctness…","Recent advancements in AI-assisted coding tools, such as GitHub Copilot and Cursor, have introduced real-time assistance by suggesting code snippets and improving productivity in isolated coding tasks. However, their scope remains limited to snippet-level assistance, lacking the ability to automate the entire software development lifecycle. This paper proposes a workflow-centric framework for AI-driven code generation that addresses this gap by enabling end-to-end automation—from requirements gathering and code generation to testing, refactoring, and deployment. The framework introduces key components, including feeding the necessary context to LLMs, automatic parsing of generated code, and automatic rollbacks to ensure reliability and scalability. By adopting these foundational building blocks, developers can automate multi-step workflows and streamline repetitive tasks. The reference implementation, JAIG (Java AI-powered Generator), serves as a proof of concept, showcasing how the framework can be implemented. JAIG demonstrates the potential for AI to reshape software engineering practices by moving beyond snippet suggestions toward comprehensive development automation of repetitive tasks. "
"AI for coders: An analysis of the usage of ChatGPT and GitHub CoPilot","https://scispace.com/paper/ai-for-coders-an-analysis-of-the-usage-of-chatgpt-and-github-5n6hg2v7bpkd","","Journal Article","Issues in information systems","A Peslak
L Kovalchick","10.48009/4_iis_2024_120","https://iacis.org/iis/2024/4_iis_2024_252-260.pdf","… for productivity enhancement. In our study, we analyze the usage of ChatGPT and GitHub CoPilot. … Their study found useful code generation to be the primary benefit to the use of …",""
"LLMs for science: Usage for code generation and data analysis","https://scispace.com/paper/llms-for-science-usage-for-code-generation-and-data-analysis-4xaa6j4hz0","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Mohamed Nejjar
Luca Zacharias
Fabian Stiehle
Ingo Weber","10.48550/arxiv.2311.16733","https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/smr.2723","… GitHub Copilot. Open source alternatives such as CodeParrot, 4 CodeBert, 15 or PolyCoder 16 exist; however, their functional correctness … ChatGPT and Bing Chat are based on the …","Large language models (LLMs) have been touted to enable increased productivity in many areas of today's work life. Scientific research as an area of work is no exception: the potential of LLM-based tools to assist in the daily work of scientists has become a highly discussed topic across disciplines. However, we are only at the very onset of this subject of study. It is still unclear how the potential of LLMs will materialise in research practice. With this study, we give first empirical evidence on the use of LLMs in the research process. We have investigated a set of use cases for LLM-based tools in scientific research, and conducted a first study to assess to which degree current tools are helpful. In this paper we report specifically on use cases related to software engineering, such as generating application code and developing scripts for data analytics. While we studied seemingly simple use cases, results across tools differ significantly. Our results highlight the promise of LLM-based tools in general, yet we also observe various issues, particularly regarding the integrity of the output these tools provide."
"A closer look at different difficulty levels code generation abilities of chatgpt","https://scispace.com/paper/a-closer-look-at-different-difficulty-levels-code-generation-2vqvuy6qyf","2023","Proceedings Article","","Dapeng Yan
Zhipeng Gao
Zhiming Liu","10.1109/ase56229.2023.00096","https://zpgao.github.io/papers/A_Closer_Look_at_Code_Generation_Abilities_of_ChatGPT.pdf","… competition problems, the evaluation results show that it can … information) to ChatGPT, we observe that ChatGPT has the … Finally, we evaluate the code quality generated by ChatGPT …","Code generation aims to generate source code implementing human requirements illustrated with natural language specifications. With the rapid development of intelligent software engineering, automated code generation has become a hot research topic in both artificial intelligence and software engineering, and researchers have made significant achievements on code generation. More recently, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated outstanding performance on code generation tasks, such as ChatGPT released by OpenAI presents the fantastic potential on automated code generation. However, the existing studies are limited to exploring LLMs' ability for generating code snippets to solve simple programming problems, the task of competition-level code generation has never been investigated. The specifications of the programming competition are always complicated and require the specific input/output format as well as the high-level algorithmic reasoning ability. In this study, we conduct the first large empirical study to investigate the zero-shot learning ability of ChatGPT for solving competition programming problems. Specifically, we warm up the design of prompts by using the Human-Eval dataset. Then, we apply the well-designed prompt to the competition-level code generation dataset, namely APPS, to further explore the effectiveness of using ChatGPT for solving competition problems. We collect ChatGPT's outputs on 5,000 code competition problems, the evaluation results show that it can successfully pass 25.4% test cases. By further feeding extra information (e.g, test failed information) to ChatGPT, we observe that ChatGPT has the potential to fix partial pass into a fully pass program. Moreover, we investigate the solutions generated by LLMs and the existing solutions, we find that it prefers to directly copy the code instead of re-write when facing more difficult problems. Finally, we evaluate the code quality generated by ChatGPT in terms of “code cleanness”, we observe that the generated codes are with small functions and file sizes, which are in line with the standard of clean code."
"Evaluating the Limitations of Local LLMs in Solving Complex Programming Challenges","https://scispace.com/paper/evaluating-the-limitations-of-local-llms-in-solving-complex-nnuknnhdfz1f","2025","Journal Article","","Amiruzzaman Md.
Ngo, Linh B.","10.48550/arxiv.2509.15283","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.15283?","… for AI-driven Code Generation Evaluation (FACE) and applying it to the same comprehensive set of Kattis problems. Whereas [16] evaluated proprietary ChatGPT-4 and Gemini 1.5, we …","This study examines the performance of today's open-source, locally hosted large-language models (LLMs) in handling complex competitive programming tasks with extended problem descriptions and contexts. Building on the original Framework for AI-driven Code Generation Evaluation (FACE), the authors retrofit the pipeline to work entirely offline through the Ollama runtime, collapsing FACE's sprawling per-problem directory tree into a handful of consolidated JSON files, and adding robust checkpointing so multi-day runs can resume after failures. The enhanced framework generates, submits, and records solutions for the full Kattis corpus of 3,589 problems across eight code-oriented models ranging from 6.7-9 billion parameters. The submission results show that the overall pass@1 accuracy is modest for the local models, with the best models performing at approximately half the acceptance rate of the proprietary models, Gemini 1.5 and ChatGPT-4. These findings expose a persistent gap between private, cost-controlled LLM deployments and state-of-the-art proprietary services, yet also highlight the rapid progress of open models and the practical benefits of an evaluation workflow that organizations can replicate on in-house hardware. "
"Comparative Analysis of AI Models for Python Code Generation: A HumanEval Benchmark Study","https://scispace.com/paper/comparative-analysis-of-ai-models-for-python-code-generation-z10iycha80og","2025","Journal Article","Applied Sciences","Ali Bayram
Gonca Gökçe Menekşe Dalveren
Mohammad Derawi","10.3390/app15189907","","… The evolution of ChatGPT and similar models for programming applications demonstrates the rapid pace of advancement in this field, making comparative studies increasingly …","This study conducts a comprehensive comparative analysis of six contemporary artificial intelligence models for Python code generation using the HumanEval benchmark. The evaluated models include GPT-3.5 Turbo, GPT-4 Omni, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, Claude 3.7 Sonnet, Claude Sonnet 4, and Claude Opus 4. A total of 164 Python programming problems were utilized to assess model performance through a multi-faceted methodology incorporating automated functional correctness evaluation via the Pass@1 metric, cyclomatic complexity analysis, maintainability index calculations, and lines-of-code assessment. The results indicate that Claude Sonnet 4 achieved the highest performance with a success rate of 95.1%, followed closely by Claude Opus 4 at 94.5%. Across all metrics, models developed by Anthropic Claude consistently outperformed those developed by OpenAI GPT by margins exceeding 20%. Statistical analysis further confirmed the existence of significant differences between the model families (p &lt; 0.001). Anthropic Claude models were observed to generate more sophisticated and maintainable solutions with superior syntactic accuracy. In contrast, OpenAI GPT models tended to adopt simpler strategies but exhibited notable limitations in terms of reliability. These findings offer evidence-based insights to guide the selection of AI-powered coding assistants in professional software development contexts. "
"AI-powered, but power-hungry? Energy efficiency of LLM-generated code","https://scispace.com/paper/ai-powered-but-power-hungry-energy-efficiency-of-llm-jdh6wovzv5an","2025","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Lola Solovyeva
Sophie Weidmann
Fernando Castor Filho","10.48550/arxiv.2502.02412","https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.02412","… accuracy of code generation has generally improved in OpenAI o1-mini compared to GPT-4o and GitHub Copilot … research is to evaluate the current capabilities of GitHub Copilot, GPT-…",""
"No need to lift a finger anymore? assessing the quality of code generation by chatgpt","https://scispace.com/paper/no-need-to-lift-a-finger-anymore-assessing-the-quality-of-3adnqiqcwv","2023","Journal Article","arXiv.org","Zhijie Liu
Yutian Tang
Xiapu Luo
Yuming Zhou
Liang Feng Zhang","10.48550/arxiv.2308.04838","https://eprints.gla.ac.uk/324588/1/324588.pdf","… ) of facilitating code generation. By … the performance of ChatGPT in tackling code generation tasks over the three critical aspects. The experimental results demonstrate that (1) ChatGPT …","Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across various NLP tasks. Additionally, LLMs are also highly valuable in supporting software engineering tasks, particularly in the field of code generation. Automatic code generation is a process of automatically generating source code or executable code based on given specifications or requirements, improving developer productivity. In this study, we perform a systematic empirical assessment to the quality of code generation using ChatGPT. We leverage 728 algorithm problems in five languages (i.e., C, C++, Java, Python, and JavaScript) and 18 CWEs with 54 code scenarios for the code generation task. Our evaluation encompasses a comprehensive analysis of code snippets generated by ChatGPT, focusing on three critical aspects: correctness, complexity, and security. We also specifically investigate ChatGPT's ability to engage in multi-round fixing process (i.e., ChatGPT's dialog ability) of facilitating code generation. By delving into the generated code and examining the experimental results, this work provides valuable insights into the performance of ChatGPT in tackling code generation tasks over the three critical aspects. Overall, our findings uncover potential issues and limitations that arise in the ChatGPT-based code generation and lay the groundwork for improving AI and LLM-based code generation techniques."
"Does ChatGPT help novice programmers write better code? Results from static code analysis","https://scispace.com/paper/does-chatgpt-help-novice-programmers-write-better-code-4blwyf23y5","2024","Preprint","","Philipp Haindl
Gerald Weinberger","10.20944/preprints202406.1151.v1","https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel8/6287639/6514899/10638538.pdf","… This study investigates the impact of ChatGPT on code quality … ChatGPT) and 22 students from the treatment group (with … evaluate GitHub Copilot’s code generation based on validity, …","In the rapidly evolving landscape of AI-supported programming education, there&amp;#039;s a growing interest in leveraging such tools to support students helping about what good code makes out. This study investigates the impact of ChatGPT on code quality among part-time undergraduate students enrolled in introductory Java programming courses. With no prior Java experience, students from two separate groups completed identical programming exercises emphasizing coding conventions and code quality. Utilizing static code analysis tools, we assessed adherence to a common coding convention ruleset and calculated cyclomatic and cognitive complexity metrics for submitted code. Our comparative analysis highlights significant improvements in code quality for the ChatGPT-assisted group (treatment group), with marked reductions in rule violations and both cyclomatic and cognitive complexities. Specifically, the treatment group demonstrated greater adherence to coding standards, with fewer violations across several rules, and produced code with lower complexity. These results suggest that ChatGPT can be a valuable tool in programming education, aiding students in writing cleaner, less complex code and better adhering to coding conventions. However, the study&amp;#039;s limitations, including the small sample size and the novice status of the participants, necessitate further research with larger, more diverse populations and in different educational contexts. "
"Automated code generation & ai tools: From Ideas to Applications","https://scispace.com/paper/Vs4jopIWqPEJ","","","","J Turunen
A Fagerholm","","https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Joni-Turunen/publication/376174254_Technology_Report_From_Ideas_to_Applications/links/656c58e7b86a1d521b2d792b/Technology-Report-From-Ideas-to-Applications.pdf","… This rapid growth had an explosive ignition with the release of ChatGPT to the public … With the tools like ChatGPT and Copilot the capabilities for automated code generation has greatly …",""